Overview
Situational Analysis  

As a result of the abject poverty and lack of employment in the rural areas, townships and informal settlements of South Africa, there exists a network of informal crèches.

These crèches are usually poorly constructed and made out of corrugated iron, wood, mud or wire and stones. Those fortunate enough may have sound structures erected by local municipalities but, in the main, the crèches are housed in makeshift buildings and in some instances, caregivers have converted their lowly shacks into crèches to assist the community in caring for the local children.  

These crèches are manned by volunteers from the local communities who do not have the necessary training to take care of the children, yet alone teach them. The caregivers at the crèches in the main lack the skills and experience to provide a safe and enriching educative environment for the children.  
The children attending these crèches are cared for in the main by grandmothers, single and/or school-going parents or older siblings and are sent to the crèche for some measure of safety, social interaction and learning during the day; often without even the most rudimentary of lunch pack. These children make up part of the over four million children in South Africa who suffer from household hunger. 
It is a well-known fact that it is during the period from birth to 6 years old that a child’s brain develops and grows the most. In order for a child to experience normal growth and enjoy a normal and meaningful education, a balanced protein diet is essential. It is in this context that Feed the Babies Fund focusses its resources on feeding pre-school children. To ensure that the children are taught a syllabus that will prepare them for formal schooling, we train caregivers in Crèche Management and other ECD programs.



Early Childhood Development Training
To ensure that children attending educare centres receive the necessary education and stimulation, Feed the Babies Fund trains caregivers in Early Childhood Development programs that will equip the caregivers with the tools to manage their centres effectively and to teach a syllabus that will further develop the children and prepare them for formal schooling. The training courses we offer, also equip the caregivers to further their ECD studies.

We offer several courses to upskill carers in early childhood development. These courses have been specifically selected based on our experience in working in the rural ECD sector for over 10 years. These courses equip carers with all the necessary tools to effectively establish and run an early childhood development centre that teaches an accredited curriculum to prepare pre-school children for school-readiness.

Short courses (click on course for more info):

Orientation & Crèche Management course
 LEGO® Playbox (incl. LEGO® box)
Lesson Planning (Themes)
“Every Word Counts” – Literacy and Numeracy
ECD Leadership & Management
Nutrition for Young Children
Qualifications:

Further Education and Training Certificate in ECD (Level 4)
Occupational Certificate for ECD Practitioners (Level 4)
Diploma in ECD (Level 5)
1st Aid and Safety for Children
All courses are structured in such a way that many educational aids and resources are included in the course content. As such, in addition to the certification on completion of the training courses, educare centres are provided with educational posters, stationery, etc. to assist in the implementation of that learnt on the courses.

We conduct all our training at our EDTP/SETA accredited training centre in Dicks Halt, Osizweni, 30 kms SE of Newcastle, or at our offices in Glenwood, Durban.

Our training centre in Osizweni is centrally situated in Northern KZN and easily accessible for our beneficiaries in the Amajuba, Zululand, Umzinyathi and Uthukela Districts. Our Durban head office services our beneficiaries in the Ethekwini, Ilembe, King Cetshwayo and Umkhanyakude Districts.

Our training staff are qualified, accredited facilitators and moderators.  Delegates are offered full board and lodging for the duration of the course.    By conducting the courses at a centrally located training centre with accommodation facilities for practitioners, they can focus on their studies and work together on projects; assisting and stimulating each other.




Nutrition Project
Feed the Babies Fund has been addressing the issue of food security; and specifically malnutrition; amongst orphans and vulnerable children since 1957, by providing cereal to babies and children living in the poorest areas of our Province.

We provide centres with a fortified, concentrated cereal that contains the correct ratio of vitamins, proteins and minerals required for the development of a young child.

In order for a child to experience normal growth and reach the correct developmental milestones through proper education, a balanced protein diet is essential. It is an established fact that extended periods of malnutrition results in irreparable brain damage.

In supplying cereal to centres, we adhere to a strict policy of controlling and monitoring the daily feeding of each child. Daily registers of child attendance and food consumption are maintained and monitored on a monthly basis.

Site visits are conducted by our Project staff on a regular basis.




Building Institutional Capacity of Edu-Care Centres
Project staff of Feed the Babies Fund spend time in the field assessing the growth and development of the children and ensuring that educare centres are run effectively and in terms of laid down guidelines. As such, we become fully aware of other needs that the centres and children may have.

Based on these observations and taking cognisance of the individual centres’ wish lists, we meet these needs by providing educare centres with items such as blankets, mattresses, tables & chairs, stationery, toys and any other necessities. These items are allocated to centres on an in-need basis. Please see our Wish List for these items of need.

We also guide and support the centres in their endeavours to become legally registered so that they can institute their own fundraising initiatives.

Assistance is also offered to educare centres that may qualify for Government subsidies to apply for same so that they may become self-sufficient.




Adopt-a-Créche Project
Our Adopt-A-Crèche campaign is a project aimed at the renovation and maintenance of educare centres. This is a popular initiative amongst local businesses and corporates, enabling them to get involved in enhancing the lives of children in the centres.

Many of the centres that we assist are in dire need of renovation, maintenance and infrastructure improvements. Through the Adopt-A-Crèche project we assist these needy centres in uplifting the condition of their premises. Often a lick of paint or the building of a jungle gym is all that is needed to enhance the experience of the children attending the centre.

We facilitate the improvement of educare centres by bringing together Corporate sponsors with needy centres to assist them in meeting the capital needs of these centres.

Educare Centres are repaired, renovated, painted or in some instances containers are supplied to replace dilapidated shacks or entirely new premises are constructed.



